---
title: "How to Save Thousands on Subaru Impreza Repairs: Unlock the Secrets of DIY Maintenance for 2012-2016 Models!"
ShowToc: true 
date: "2023-01-14"
author: "Donald Tunis"
---
*****
# How to Save Thousands on Subaru Impreza Repairs: Unlock the Secrets of DIY Maintenance for 2012-2016 Models!

If you own a Subaru Impreza from the years 2012-2016, then you know how expensive maintenance and repair costs can be. As one of the most reliable cars in the market, it’s important to keep up with regular maintenance to keep it running smoothly. However, there are a few ways you can save thousands of dollars on repairs by taking matters into your own hands.

## Basic Maintenance

The first step to saving money on repairs is to keep up with basic maintenance. This includes checking your vehicle’s fluids, replacing air filters, rotating tires, and changing the oil. These are all easy tasks that can be done in your garage or driveway.

## Diagnosing Problems

If you notice something is wrong with your Subaru Impreza, such as an unusual noise or a dashboard light, it’s important to diagnose the problem before taking it to a mechanic. There are many diagnostic tools available such as OBD-II scanners that can give valuable insight into what’s going on under the hood.

## Repairs You Can Do Yourself

Some repairs can be done easily and without the need to take your car to a professional mechanic. These include replacing brake pads, spark plugs, and filters. With the help of online tutorials and manuals, many people have been able to fix these problems without paying for labor costs.

## Upgrades and Modifications

If you’re looking to modify your car, it’s important to do so within reason. Adding performance parts and aftermarket modifications to your Subaru Impreza can increase the risk of damage if not done correctly. However, if done properly, these upgrades can improve performance and save you money on repairs by keeping your vehicle running smoothly.

## Invest in Quality Parts

When making repairs or upgrades, it’s important to invest in quality parts that are specifically designed for your Subaru Impreza. This not only ensures optimal performance but also increases the longevity of the vehicle. Cheap or generic parts may save money in the short term but can cause bigger problems and ultimately more expensive repairs down the line.

## Final Thoughts

Maintaining your Subaru Impreza doesn’t have to be expensive. With basic maintenance, diagnosing problems, minor repairs, and quality parts, you can save thousands of dollars on costly repairs. However, it’s important to remember that not all repairs can be done at home and some require the assistance of a professional. When in doubt, it’s always best to seek professional help to ensure the safety and reliability of your Subaru Impreza.

{{< youtube AFVfjzs-mH0 >}} 





