---
title: "Are You Driving a Honda Civic? Beware of These Common Repair Issues from 2012-2015!"
ShowToc: true 
date: "2023-05-14"
author: "Richard Yanez"
---
*****
# Are You Driving a Honda Civic? Beware of These Common Repair Issues from 2012-2015!

If you are a proud owner of a Honda Civic from the years 2012 through 2015, then this article is for you. While these are some of the most reliable cars on the market, there are a few common problems that Civic drivers have reported.

Here are some of the most common repair issues that Honda Civic drivers have faced:

## Transmission Issues

One of the most common issues with the Honda Civic from 2012 to 2015 is problems with the transmission. Some drivers have reported that their car hesitates when shifting gears, have difficulty accelerating, or can slip out of gear entirely. This can be dangerous and require costly repairs.

## Electrical Problems

Another common issue is related to the car's electrical system. Some drivers have reported that their power windows and doors stop working, or that their battery runs down quickly.

## Engine Problems

Engine problems have also been reported with the Honda Civic from these years. Some drivers have reported a loss of power or a rough idle, while others have experienced issues with the engine stalling altogether.

## Suspension and Braking Issues

Problems with the suspension and brakes have also been common for Honda Civic drivers from 2012-2015. Some drivers have reported squeaking or grinding when braking, while others have experienced a vibration in the steering wheel or while driving.

## Airbag Issues

Lastly, some Honda Civic drivers from these years have reported problems with the airbags. Some of these airbags have been known to deploy without a collision or not deploy at all during an accident.

## Conclusion

In conclusion, if you own a Honda Civic from the years 2012 through 2015, it's important to be aware of these common repair issues. If you suspect your car has any of these problems, it's important to take it to a certified mechanic right away to ensure your safety and prevent further damage to your car. Remember, regular maintenance and check-ups can help prevent some of these issues from occurring in the first place!

{{< youtube Gffv6Rfzjos >}} 





