---
title: "You won't believe how easy it is to fix your 2014-2016 Scion TC with these repair hacks!"
ShowToc: true 
date: "2023-02-04"
author: "Mitchell Ochoa"
---
*****
# You Won't Believe How Easy it is to Fix Your 2014-2016 Scion TC with These Repair Hacks!

If you own a 2014-2016 Scion TC, you know how important it is to keep your car running smoothly. However, like any car, it can develop problems from time to time. The good news is that there are some easy fixes that you can do yourself. Here are some repair hacks that you will find useful.

1. Changing Brake Pads

One of the most important parts of your car is the brake pads. If you notice any squeaking or grinding sounds when you brake, it's time to replace them. Thankfully, replacing brake pads is a fairly simple process. Simply follow these steps:

• Jack up the car

• Remove the wheel

• Remove the bolts that hold the caliper in place

• Slide out the old brake pads

• Install the new brake pads

• Reinstall the caliper and wheel

This entire process should take no more than a couple of hours, and you'll save a lot of money by doing it yourself.

2. Removing Dents

It's frustrating when your car gets dented. However, you don't need to spend hundreds of dollars to have it fixed. Instead, try this repair hack:

• Boil a pot of water

• Pour it over the dent

• Take a plunger and put it over the dent

• Push and pull the plunger repeatedly

• The dent should pop out

This is an excellent way to remove small dents and save yourself a lot of cash.

3. Replacing Headlight Bulbs

If your headlight is out, it's easy to replace the bulb. Follow these steps:

• Remove the clip holding the headlight bulb in place

• Remove the old bulb

• Insert the new bulb and fix it in place

• Replace the clip

This entire process should take no more than ten minutes.

4. Replacing Your Air Filter

A dirty air filter can cause your car to run poorly. Thankfully, replacing it is easy.

• Open your hood and locate your air filter

• Remove the old filter

• Insert the new filter

It's that simple, and replacing your air filter can help improve your gas mileage.

With these repair hacks, you'll be able to take care of your 2014-2016 Scion TC easily and affordably. Remember, if you're unsure about any repairs, don't hesitate to contact a professional mechanic.

{{< youtube RpnI4zu4Uac >}} 





