---
title: "Unlock the Secret to Financial Freedom: Mastering the Debt Coverage Ratio with this Easy Formula!"
ShowToc: true 
date: "2023-04-23"
author: "Frances Magnuson"
---
*****
Financial freedom is something that many of us dream of, a life in which money worries don't consume our every thought and our bank accounts are full enough to give us choices. But the path to financial freedom can sometimes seem daunting, with complex financial formulas that most people don't understand. Yet, there is one formula that can truly make a difference in helping us attain financial freedom: the debt coverage ratio.

At its core, the debt coverage ratio is a measure of how much cash flow a property can generate compared to the debt service payments that it requires. Simply put, it tells you whether or not a property can generate enough cash to cover its mortgage payments.

For instance, let's say you want to purchase a rental property that has a monthly mortgage payment of $2,000. To calculate the debt coverage ratio, you would divide the net operating income (NOI) of the property by the annual debt service. The NOI is calculated by subtracting all of the expenses associated with the property (excluding the mortgage payment) from the rental income generated by it.

Assuming that the monthly rental income is $5,000 and the total annual expenses (including maintenance, repairs and management costs) add up to $25,000, then the NOI would be $35,000. If we divide that by the annual debt service of $24,000 (which is $2,000 x 12), we get a debt coverage ratio of 1.46.

The ideal debt coverage ratio will vary depending on the lender and the type of property being financed. For instance, a commercial lender might require a debt coverage ratio of 1.2 or 1.3, while a residential lender might prefer a ratio of 1.5 or higher.

Generally, the higher the debt coverage ratio, the better, as it indicates that a property generates enough cash flow to cover its mortgage payments and still provide a decent return for the owner. A lower ratio, on the other hand, could indicate a high level of risk, as it suggests that the property doesn't generate enough cash flow to cover all of its expenses.

While the debt coverage ratio might seem like a complex formula to wrap your head around, it's actually quite simple once you understand its components. It's a powerful tool that can help you make informed decisions when it comes to purchasing and financing property, and ultimately, it can help you reach financial freedom.

So, take control of your financial future and master the debt coverage ratio. Once you understand it, you'll be well on your way to unlocking the secret of financial freedom!

{{< youtube 17_-8jtqtE4 >}} 



## What is the Debt Coverage Ratio?
 
The debt coverage ratio is one of the important solvency ratios and helps the analyst determine if the firm generates sufficient net operating income to service its debt repayment.
 
### Debt Coverage Ratio Formula
 
Let us look at the debt coverage ratio formula:
 
 You are free to use this image on you website, templates, etc.,  Please provide us with an attribution linkHow to Provide Attribution?Article Link to be HyperlinkedFor eg:Source: Debt Coverage Ratio (wallstreetmojo.com) 
 
The formula is important to two groups of individuals.
 
- The first group of people would like to invest in that company. But, before they ever loan the amount to the firm, they want to know whether the firm has enough operating income to cover the payments.The second group of individuals is internal people. They can be from top management or report to the top management. They use this formula to see whether the firm has enough operating income to go for external sources of financeExternal Sources Of FinanceAn external source of finance is the one where the finance comes from outside the organization and is generally bifurcated into different categories where first is long-term, being shares, debentures, grants, bank loans; second is short term, being leasing, hire purchase; and the short-term, including bank overdraft, debt factoring.read more like debt finance.

 
Also, you may have a look at this detailed post on DSCRDSCRDebt service coverage (DSCR) is the ratio of net operating income to total debt service that determines whether a company's net income is sufficient to cover its debt obligations. It is used to calculate the loanable amount to a corporation during commercial real estate lending.read more
 
### Example of Debt Coverage Ratio Formula
 
Jaymohan Company has been looking for debt financing. They approached nearby banks and financial institutionsFinancial InstitutionsFinancial institutions refer to those organizations which provide business services and products related to financial or monetary transactions to their clients. Some of these are banks, NBFCs, investment companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies and trust corporations. read more. Jaymohan Company has found out that the debt service cost would be around $40,000 for a particular period. They want to know whether their net operating income is enough to cover the expenses. You are the accountant of Jaymohan Company, and you found out that the operating income for this particular period is $500,000. Would you think that Jaymohan Company should go for debt financing after all?
 
The solution lies in debt coverage ratio calculation.
 
An accountant should see the proportion between the net operating income and the debt service cost.
 
- Formula = Net Operating Income / Debt Service Cost= $500,000 / $40,000 = 12.5.

 
As per the ratio is concerned, Jaymohan Company has enough net operating incomeNet Operating IncomeNet Operating Income (NOI) is a measure of profitability representing the amount earned from its core operations by deducting operating expenses from operating revenue. It excludes non-operating costs such as loss on sale of a capital asset, interest, tax expenses.read more to cover the debt service cost for the period.
 
However, the accountant also needs to see whether similar companies in the same industry have identical or closer results. Or the accountant can also check the industry’s norm to be certain that 12.5 is a good proportion.
 
### Uses
 
Before the investors decide to loan the company’s debt, they look at various metrics.
 
One of the most important metrics is whether the company has earned enough operating income to cover the debt payment. If not, the investors drop the idea of investing in that company.
 
This ratio may not be the only formula for the investors to check the company’s stability they would like to invest in. Still, it certainly is one of the most important ratios to check whether a firm is worthy or not.
 
### Debt Coverage Ratio Calculator 
 
You can use the following calculator:
 
### Calculate Debt Coverage Ratio in Excel 
 
Let us now do the same example above in Excel. It is very simple. You must provide the inputs of net operating income and debt service cost. Then, you can easily calculate the ratio in the template provided.
 
You can download this template here – Debt Coverage Ratio Excel Template.
 
### Debt Coverage Ratio Formula Video
 
### Recommended Articles:
 
This article is a guide to the Debt Coverage Ratio. We discuss the debt coverage ratio formula, practical examples, a calculator, and Excel templates. You may also look at these articles below to learn more about financial analysis: –
 
- What is the Debt Ratio Formula?What Is The Debt Ratio Formula?The debt ratio is the division of total debt liabilities to the company's total assets. It represents a company's ability to hold and be in a position to repay the debt if necessary on an urgent basis. Formula = total liabilities/total assetsread moreFormula for Asset Coverage RatioFormula For Asset Coverage RatioAsset Coverage Ratio is a risk analysis multiple that depicts the company’s ability to repay the debt by selling off the assets and outlines how much of the monetary and tangible assets are available against the debt. It helps an investor to predict the future earnings and gauge the risk involved in the investment.read moreDebt Consolidation CalculatorDebt Consolidation CalculatorDebt consolidation is a process of merging existing multiple loans that are bearing high rate of interest with low bearing rate of interest. This calculator will make all the relevant calculations easier for you. read moreWhat is the Reserve Ratio Formula?What Is The Reserve Ratio Formula?Reserve Ratio is portion of total deposits that commercial banks are obligated to maintain with the central bank in the form of cash reserve. It is calculated by dividing the cash reserve maintained with the central bank by the bank deposits.read more




