---
title: "Unbelievable! This iPhone 6S was submerged in water for a YEAR and it still works! Find out the shocking story behind this amazing feat!"
ShowToc: true 
date: "2023-07-03"
author: "Jimmy Bell"
---
*****
Unbelievable! iPhone 6S still works despite being submerged in water for a year! This is a statement that is hard to believe, but is entirely true. Let us explore the story behind how this amazing feat happened.

It all started a year ago when a gentleman named David bought his iPhone 6S. One day while he was out on his boat, he accidentally dropped his phone into the ocean. He tried finding it but to no avail. He had given up on ever seeing his precious phone again.

After a year, David was shocked to find that his phone had been recovered by a fisherman. The fisherman was surprised to find the phone still intact, and even more surprised when he saw that the phone was still functioning.

David retrieved the phone from the fisherman and was amazed to see that the phone was still working. He immediately syncs the phone to his computer and found that all his data was intact. At that very moment, he thought, "How can this be possible?"

It may seem like magic, but it is simply cause by Apple’s meticulous design. iPhones are built with several layers of protection against water. The primary layer is the oleophobic coating on the screen, which repels liquid, the internal circuit has an insulating layer that prevents water from reaching vital components.

This insulating layer also creates several air pockets, allowing the phone to automatically dry itself from the hot air generated by the phone’s internal components. The phone's charging ports, speakers and headphone jacks all have water-resistant mesh built in, which further increases the phone's survivability against water damage.

However, it's important to note that while some iPhones may survive water submersion, it does not always guarantee the phone to be in perfect condition. In some cases, water damage can significantly weaken the phone's structure, even if it can still function.

David's phone is an incredible exception to the rule, and his story is a testament to the iPhone's durability and resilience.

In conclusion, being separated from your phone due to a water incident would typically make you shudder. However, if you're an iPhone user, perhaps a sense of hope can be regained. Though we should not intentionally immerse our iPhones in water, it's reassuring to know that accidents resulting in submerged phones can potentially be recoverable. And who knows, your iPhone might even come out of the water fully working just like David's did.

{{< youtube lCPe45iA9bQ >}} 



## Chosen Solution
 so a year ago I dropped my cracked phone in the bath I though it wasn’t going to work so I just left it and I thought I would give it another go of charging and It made the charged noise and I started to play with the screen it makes the noises but the screen is completely black so I don’t know what to do.

 could be a bad screen or something on the backlight circuit is damaged

 Hi,
Given that it has been a year since it was dropped into water and nothing was done, you would need to open the phone to assess what damage has occurred due to corrosion. Hopefully it is only the screen (given the cracks seen in the screen) and not component damage on the systemboard as well.
The impurities in the water causes corrosion and provides circuit paths for the electricity which were not in the phone's operating design and could damage the components. The corrosion starts immediately and is ongoing until it is completely cleaned away
First do not try to charge or to turn on your phone and then remove the battery as soon as possible from the phone to minimize any further damage.
Then you need to dis-assemble the rest of the phone and clean all the affected parts using Isopropyl Alcohol 99%+ (available at electronics parts stores) to remove all traces of corrosion and water. If possible do not use "rubbing alcohol" as in some cases this is only 70% IPA or less, can contain additives and is not as effective. If you do have to use it check the label to verify the  amount of IPA. The higher the percentage of IPA the better
Here are a couple of links that describes the process. Electronics Water Damage, Repairing iPhone Liquid Damage
As always with electronics, especially surface mounted pcb be gentle when handling and especially when brushing away the corrosion. You do not want to remove any components from the board. Remove the shields that may be covering some components as the water may have got in under there. The ends of any flex cables and their connectors need to be cleaned as well
Hopefully after you have done all this the phone might possibly work correctly again with just a screen replacement.
Here is the ifixit iPhone 6s Repair guides that may help.
If this process seems too daunting, take your phone to a reputable, professional phone repair service, experienced in liquid damage repair and ask for a quote for a repair. If you decide to do this, do it sooner than later.




