---
title: "You Won't Believe How I Built a Bubu Steam Deck! The Ultimate Gaming Machine!"
ShowToc: true 
date: "2022-12-20"
author: "Hattie Gombert"
---
*****
You Won't Believe How I Built a Bubu Steam Deck! The Ultimate Gaming Machine!

Are you tired of playing your favorite games on slow, outdated hardware? Have you been dreaming of a gaming machine that can deliver the ultimate gaming experience? Look no further than the Bubu Steam Deck, the ultimate gaming machine that is capable of running all of your favorite games at the highest possible settings.

So, how did I build this amazing machine? It all started with a vision. I wanted a gaming machine that was portable, powerful, and could run all of my favorite games without any compromise. After doing some research, I decided to build a Bubu Steam Deck, which is essentially a handheld device that can run Steam games.

The first thing I did was purchase a powerful CPU and GPU that can handle any game that I throw at it. I went for the Intel Core i7-1165G7 processor and the NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3080 mobile GPU, which are some of the most powerful components available on the market.

Next, I sourced for a high-quality 7-inch IPS display with a resolution of 800p x 1280p that could deliver crystal clear visuals to match the GPU's capability. The display needed to be small enough to fit the Bubu Steam Deck perfectly but still big enough to deliver an immersive gaming experience.

To put everything together, I opted for an aluminum chassis that would provide a sturdy and lightweight structure for the machine. The chassis needed to have adequate airflow for cooling the CPU and GPU, so I used copper heat pipes and fans to dissipate the heat generated by the components.

The final step was to install SteamOS, which is a free Linux-based operating system developed specifically for playing games on Steam. SteamOS optimizes game performance and allows you to stream games from your PC directly to the Bubu Steam Deck.

Now, I have a gaming machine that can run all of my favorite games at their highest settings, and I can take it with me wherever I go. The Bubu Steam Deck has become my go-to device for gaming, and I'm sure you'll love it too.

In conclusion, building a Bubu Steam Deck is not only a fun project, but it's also a great way to create a high-performance gaming machine that is portable and powerful. With the right components, you too can build the ultimate gaming machine that can deliver the ultimate gaming experience.

{{< youtube C3xeBlEuufw >}} 



## Chosen Solution
 I accidentally spilled an isopropyl alcohol on my ONEXPLAYER 1s. And its a 70% solution. I just recently talk to the vendor and they said that its out of warranty. Other than LCD damage. Would Isopropyl alcohol do some damage on the board? I know that this report isn't should be on steam deck. But its the closest device to my unit. Pls. Help.

 Hi @delta01xray
All liquids conduct electricity to some extent, except distilled water.
Isopropyl alcohol will conduct also when wet especially if it is only a 70% solution as the other 30% is either water or some other liquid. Isopropyl Alcohol is used to clean electronics and usually it is 99%+ and it is used when all the power has been disconnected from the device being cleaned. The beauty of using IPA 99%+ is that it evaporates quickly and leaves no residues, conductive or otherwise, whereas 70% IPA may leave residues that are conductive and can also start corrosion occurring between the metals on the motherboard which can cause further problems if left without being cleaned off.
The trouble with modern battery powered electronic devices is that the power button is not a power isolating button so there's always power somewhere on the motherboard even if the device is "off". The power button is used to signal the intentions of the user i.e. turn on, turn off, sleep etc. Think of the device as being in an extremely low power state when off and not that it is totally disconnected from any power.
The device will have to be opened, the battery disconnected and then the motherboard inspected for any obvious component damage




