---
title: "Attention MacBook owners! Are you seeing strange lines on your screen? It could be a serious issue with your CPU overheating. Click here to avoid costly repairs and troubleshoot now!"
ShowToc: true 
date: "2022-12-10"
author: "Rita Settle"
---
*****
Attention MacBook owners! Are you seeing strange lines on your screen? It could be a serious issue with your CPU overheating. Click here to avoid costly repairs and troubleshoot now!

If you've been noticing unusual lines appearing on your MacBook screen, then it's time to take action. These lines could be a sign of a severe issue with your MacBook's CPU overheating, which can cause permanent damage if left unchecked. In this article, we'll explore what causes CPU overheating and how to troubleshoot the issue yourself to avoid costly repairs.

What Causes MacBooks to Overheat?

MacBooks, like other electronic devices, generate heat during use. The heat is created due to the CPU and other components processing tasks. The MacBook's cooling system is designed to dissipate heat generated by the CPU, but in some cases, it may not be sufficient. There are several reasons why a MacBook's CPU may overheat:

1. Blocked Vents: The MacBook's cooling system functions using a series of vents that allow air to circulate around the internals of the device. Blocked vents can impede the flow of air, which leads to overheating.

2. Resource-Intensive Tasks: Heavy-duty tasks, such as video rendering or gaming, cause the CPU to work harder, generating more heat. Over time, this can cause the MacBook to overheat.

3. Faulty Fans: The MacBook's cooling system includes a fan that regulates airflow around the CPU. If the fan is faulty or broken, the MacBook will overheat because of the restricted airflow.

How to Troubleshoot MacBook Overheating Issues

If you're experiencing overheating issues on your MacBook, it's essential to troubleshoot the problem as quickly as possible. Here are some tips to help you troubleshoot the problem:

1. Check the Vents: Take a look at the MacBook's vents and ensure they're not blocked by dirt, dust, or debris. Clean the vents with a brush or compressed air to remove any obstructions.

2. Reduce Processor Load: If possible, reduce the number of applications running on your MacBook, particularly those that consume a lot of resources. This will ease the strain on the CPU, helping to reduce heat.

3. Check the Fan: Listen for any unusual noises emanating from your MacBook's fan. If there are any, it's likely the fan needs to be replaced.

4. Reset the SMC: Resetting your MacBook's System Management Controller (SMC) may help resolve overheating issues. Instructions for resetting the SMC can be found on the Apple website.

Conclusion

Overheating on your MacBook can be a severe issue that could lead to costly repairs. If you've been experiencing issues with strange lines on your screen or other symptoms, it's essential to take action now. By troubleshooting the issue yourself, you can avoid costly repairs and ensure your MacBook continues to operate smoothly. If you're unsure of anything or if the issue persists, it's recommended that you contact Apple support for further guidance.

{{< youtube dlnv6JSk8Tc >}} 



## Chosen Solution
 I got this old MBP and I booted it up and started using it but soon some lines began to appear across the screen and at first.
I was kinda confused and so I did some diagnosing. I found that whenever CPU temperature rises the screen starts to look like this.
So, I installed SMC fan control and occasionally put my computer on ice packs to keep it cool.
Sometimes bending or hitting the bottom corners or the laptop will sometimes stop the lines and sometimes make it worse.
I even went as far to re-apply the thermal paste but to no avail.  Funny thing is I tried hooking it up to an external monitor and the lines didn't appear on the monitor only on my laptop.
I am really confused and would appreciate any help.

 First I hate SMC Fan Cnt. The problem I have it only masks the problem doesn't fix it!
OK, here's the deal you have a heat issue something is getting too warm and/or the systems cooling system is not working.
So the first thing is to clean out the dust and other junk out. Get a soft paint brush and a can of can'ed air. Carefully, scrub the surfaces as needed to loosen the dust and a quick burst of air blow it away. Make sure you don't over rev the fan as you can damage it. Do make sure to blow out the heat sink fins.
Now lets get something that is useful! Get this app: TG Pro you'll want to get the full version as the trial is not much help any more. With it you should be able to see whats getting hot and if the fan units are working. The built-in diagnostics will help you. Let us know what it tells you post a screenshot when screen starts to get distorted.
Update (05/26/2016)
Looking at your output we can see the fan's are going full tilt so I do think you need to do some cleaning. Dust on the blades lowers their effectiveness. Don't forget the heat sink fins!
The high water mark for your CPU Die is way too high!! I also see your Northbridge chip is running hot as well. Your system is also struggling with I/O.
What is the amount of RAM and what is the size of your HD as well as the free space it has?
I suspect you need more RAM and the drive is small and/or very full. Given the fact you're a gamer you should think about pushing the RAM up to the max here (8 GB). You may need to upgrade your HD if you still have the 320 GB drive. I would jump to a SSD 512 GB as a minimum. Make sure you leave 1/3 of the space free.




